Creates the May Newsletter (#158)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/posts/newsletter-may-2021.md

Title: EthicalAds Newsletter - May 2021
Date: June 11, 2021
description: Our May 2021 ads update, including stats and commentary, on our progress as we build EthicalAds
tags: newsletter, community
authors: Ra Cohen

> image: /images/posts/2021-may-newsletter.jpg

Reviewer: We probably need to just shrink the image a bit (w/h-wise). It'll take forever to load over the network. I think the others are 1024x768.

Author: This one is smaller but still not that small. Lemme know if I should resize it, again

image_credit: <span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@scottwebb?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Scott Webb</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/simple?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>

## New features

Here's the major features we added in the last month:

> * In our ad server, we added a support form to make it easier for advertisers and publishers alike to get in contact with us.

Reviewer: One other thing -- not sure if we should mention it because it is ongoing a bit -- is that we are doing some deep dives into understanding our topics better in terms of how much exact demand relative to supply there is. This will help us prioritize adding the right publishers who will benefit most.

Author: I think it's worth mentioning once we have something actionable/demonstrable but perhaps not yet

* In our ad server, we also added staff actions to allow our staff to better assist in the creation, modification, and management of advertisers.

> * On our website, we added the Community Ad information and application form. Now open source community projects can apply to have their ads run for free by like-minded publishers when a paid ad is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On our website, we updated and streamlined our Community Ad information and application form. Now open source community projects can apply to have their ads run for free by like-minded publishers when a paid ad is not available.
```

Reviewer: We should link to the form!

> * We also recently launched our ***Learning Hub***. Your one stop shop resource for information on EthicalAds, our audience, and what makes a good advertisement. More on that later.

Reviewer: HYPE! Link to the hub!

You can always see our latest server updates in our [ethical-ad-server changelog](https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/changelog.html).

## May advertising stats

May was a great month for advertising as we had some new ad buys start.

In May 2021:

* We generated **$33,847.88** for our publishers.
  Of this, $23,693.52 was to third-party publishers, with the rest to Read the Docs.
  While not a surprise, this was another all-time record for our third-party publishers!
* We had **104 publishers** on our network with a paid ad impression.
* We had **14,659,563** paid ad views across the world.

So far, June is looking to continue the gains that we made in May although

> we are hoping to onboard some new publishers to increase our ad inventory.

Reviewer: Should we mention we are at capacity and that's why we're adding publishers?

## Learning Hub

Discover more about EthicalAds than ever before right from the navigation bar!
Our new Learning Hub collects information regarding who we are,
our  vision for the future of advertising,
and statistics on the make-up of our audience. It also contains:
* Advertiser's Guide which details how to craft a great advertisement for our audience including insights into what has worked well in the past.
* Publisher's Guide which details how to earn the most money with EthicalAds including tips on ad placements, the trade-offs between text-only ad and image ad spots, and how to increase your CTR and thus your revenue.

## Tricky bits

> 

Reviewer: I would reiterate here that we are at capacity and hoping to find publishers.

Author: I said approaching capacity in case potential advertisers read this and want to start a campaign with us.

With our processes becoming more standardized to allow new staff to handle day to day operations, we are now ready to focus on growing the network.
Marketing and growth is a challenge for any small business.
Luckily we are privilidged to have a business that gets better the bigger it grows.
More advertisers means more money for publishers and more publishers means a larger potential audience for advertisers.

## Upcoming features

The major features in our upcoming roadmap:

* Advertisers will be able to view changes that they have requested in the targeting page.
* In an effort to help our expansion, we are tweaking a referral system for our current publishers.

> 

Reviewer: Let's mention biasing CPC ads to high CTR publishers slightly which will incentivize publishers to have higher performance.

Author: I'm mildly concerned that this change would incentivize CPM advertisers to go CPC to reach the better publishers.

Title: EthicalAds Newsletter - May 2021

> Date: June 14, 2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Date: June 15, 2021
```

description: Our May 2021 ads update, including stats and commentary, on our progress as we build EthicalAds
tags: newsletter, community
authors: Ra Cohen
image: /images/posts/2021-may-newsletter.jpg
image_credit: <span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@scottwebb?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Scott Webb</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/simple?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>

## New features

These are the major features we added in the last month:

* In our ad server, we added a support form to make it easier
  for advertisers and publishers alike to get in contact with us.
* Also in our ad server, we added actions to allow our staff to better assist in
  the creation, modification, and management of advertisers and their campaigns.

> * On our website, we updated and streamlined our [Community Ad]({filename}/#community-ads) information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On our website, we updated and streamlined our [Community Ad]({filename}/pages/vision.md#community-ads) information.
```

  Now open source community projects can apply to have their ads run for free
  by like-minded publishers when a paid ad is not available.

> * We also recently launched our [Learning Hub]({filename}/learning-hub/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We also recently launched our [Learning Hub]({filename}/pages/learning-hub/index.md).
```

  Your one stop shop resource for information on EthicalAds, our audience, and
  what makes a good advertisement. More on that later.

You can always see our latest server updates in our [ethical-ad-server changelog](https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/changelog.html).

## May advertising stats

May was a great month for advertising as we had some new ad buys start.

In May 2021:

* We generated **$23,495.17** for our publishers.
  Of this, $11,719.57 was to third-party publishers, with the rest to Read the Docs.
* We had **104 publishers** on our network with at least one paid ad impression.
* We had **14,659,563** paid ad views across the world.

In May, we undertook an effort to increase the performance of publishers
with the lowest Click Through Rates.
In some cases, we were able to increase performance
while in others, we agreed to part ways.
As we approach our ad capacity, we are actively working to onboard
new, high quality publishers, which will expand our ad inventory.

## Learning Hub

Discover more about EthicalAds right from the navigation bar!

> Our new [Learning Hub]({filename}/learning-hub/) collects information regarding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our new [Learning Hub]({filename}/pages/learning-hub/index.md) collects information regarding
```

who we are, our vision for the future of advertising,

> and statistics on the make-up of our audience. It also contains:
> * Advertiser's Guide which details how to craft a great advertisement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and statistics on the make-up of our audience. It also contains:

* Advertiser's Guide which details how to craft a great advertisement
```

Reviewer: This needs a space to be handled correctly.

  While not a surprise, this was another all-time record for our third-party publishers!
* We had **104 publishers** on our network with at least one paid ad impression.
* We had **14,659,563** paid ad views across the world.

In May, we undertook an effort to increase the performance of publishers
with the lowest Click Through Rates.
In some cases, we were able to increase performance
while in others, we agreed to part ways.
As we approach our ad capacity, we are actively working to onboard
new, high quality publishers, expanding our ad inventory.

## Learning Hub

Discover more about EthicalAds than ever before right from the navigation bar!
Our new [Learning Hub]({filename}/learning-hub/) collects information regarding
who we are, our  vision for the future of advertising,
and statistics on the make-up of our audience. It also contains:
* Advertiser's Guide which details how to craft a great advertisement
  for *our* audience including insights into what has worked well in the past.
* Publisher's Guide which details how to earn the most money with EthicalAds
  including tips on ad placements,
  the trade-offs between text-only ad and image ad spots,

>   and how to increase your CTR and thus your revenue.

Author: You're right. Those were possible ideas to expand the publisher's guide. Updated

## Tricky bits

As I mentioned, we are on the verge of max capacity with regards to ad inventory.
With our processes becoming more standardized, allowing new staff to handle day to day operations,
we are now ready to focus on growing the network.
Marketing and growth is a challenge for any small business.

> Luckily, we are privilidged to have a business that gets better the bigger it grows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An advertising network gets better as it grows bigger.
```

I think more specifics are good here -- the current line relies on a lot of context (what business?) -- it also isn't luck :)

More advertisers means more money for publishers and

> more publishers means a larger potential audience for advertisers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
more publishers means a larger pool of niche topics for advertisers.
```

## Upcoming features

The major features in our upcoming roadmap:

> * Advertisers will be able to view changes that they have requested in the targeting page.

Reviewer 2: What does this mean? Is this a history of all targeting changes for a flight? An example might help.

Author: Reworded for more specificity. Lemme come up with an example!

Reviewer 2: I think the typo fix today might be a good one. Basically just a history of changes made to each ad?

> * To detrickify the marketing bit, we are designing a referral system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We are designing a referral system
```

`detrickify`?

>   for our current publishers. Look for more info on that in the coming weeks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  for our current publishers.
```

* Ad Click prioritization will be coming to our network.

>   Advertisers who pay per click will be symbiotically matched with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Advertisers who pay per click will be matched with
```
